As I have understood, the biggest
innovation in the business model was
that you were directed or started
to direct to a segment that until
that moment was not a buyer of
software, such as SMEs.
Let’s see, I think this is a
clear example of Blue Ocean.
If you look at the famous Blue Oceans
book, you go to places where you’
ve never been and change proposals
you’ve been taking away already
swimming things.
We went to a market that
was not a customer, as
were SMEs.
Why is?
Because they could not spend 300,000
pessets that we will transfer it
now to 10,000 euros in a license,
plus all the services that there
were.
They had no capacity, they had no
access to that, although they really had
the advantages they gave that world,
being able to make that step.
I always told you, and I make
a parenthesis here Borja, always
told the entrepreneurs, you are
spending more on air conditioning
than on software, are you
realizing what barbarity
is doing?
And only those who tried it called
me and said, What was your
reason?
But until I’ve seen it, the air
conditioning area is something
vital I need to work on.
Then I realized what this has
brought me to enriching
my but of course, that is
very complicated at first.
And that’s exactly what I’m telling
you now, that’s what happened.
And then we added a series of components
to the program, we gave it ease of
use, we gave it ergonomics,
it was much more friendly, much more
friendly, we gave it things that we
didn’t have and we took away complexity.
Then we gave it an affordable price.
Then if we read the famous book,
it is a clear example of Blue Ocean,
that that Blue Ocean is now a red
ocean because there are competitors
everywhere that even give it
for free, that is no longer
what it was.
Then effectively, answering your
question, yes, we did right,
changed the product and went
to a market that at that time
was not a customer.
That’s why we sold that amount
of products, more than all
the software products that
were running in the mid-
sized large companies in terms
of number of units.